---
layout: post
title: ThinkPad E470
tags: [thinkpad, e470]
---
Recently I've been looking for a Linux-friendly, budget laptop. I like ThinkPads, and all of my laptops have been either T-series or X-series but this time I didn't want to spend that amount of money and was looking for cheaper alternatives.

Browsing Lenovo website, I realised that a reasonably configured [E470](http://www3.lenovo.com/ie/en/laptops/thinkpad/edge-series/E470/p/22TP2TEE470) would cost about €1000 which was about how much I was willing to pay. I configured it, so it has:

* Intel® Core™ i7-7500U
* 16GB RAM
* NVIDIA® GeForce® 940MX 2 GB
* 14" FHD (1920x1080) anti-glare IPS
* 256GB SSD

Including VAT it set me back €1032 which I think is reasonable.

Unlike my other laptops, this time I kept the Windows mainly because it has a discrete GPU—granted not a high-performance one but still much better than Intel HD ones—and I thought I might be able to use it for some light gaming.

I installed Debian testing on it, and everything worked out of the box! The only issue I have with it is that middle-click isn't working, but this [patch](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/drivers/input/mouse/trackpoint.c?id=293b915fd9bebf33cdc906516fb28d54649a25ac) will fix it.

Being a budget laptop, E470 lacks some features of X and T series. For example, it doesn't have ThinkLight or the keyboard isn't backlit. Its only video output is HDMI which caused me some headache. My monitor only has DisplayPort input; so I bought an HDMI to DisplayPort adapter not realizing that those cables aren't bi-directional. They're suitable for scenarios in which you need to connect your DisplayPort-capable device to an HDTV, not the other way around. However, there are [converters](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Adapter-Resolution-DisplayPort-Converter-monitors/dp/B00WM6MPGC/) capable of doing such transformation, at higher costs.

**The Good**

* Reasonably priced.
* 45WH battery lasts 8 hours.

**The Bad**

* FHD is the most high-resolution option.
* Keyboard is not backlit.
* No ThinkLight.

**The Ugly**

* It's weighty, ugly, bulky, and the design is unimaginative.
